SYMBIAN OS V9.3

 »
Symbian OS v9.3 »
Examples »
Messaging example code »
Messaging Text MTM example code »
Building and use

Building and use

The TextMTM can be built, deployed on the emulator or native
platform, and its functionality experimented with through the messaging
application.

To do this requires a number of steps:

build all TextMTM projects for the relevant target

run the txin program to register the TextMTM with
the Message Server

run the messaging application, and experiment with creating and
using TextMTM services and messages

The following sections contain more details on each of these.

Building

The TextMTM is more complex than some other examples, as it is made
up of a number of projects, some of which include headers from other projects,
or link to the utilities DLL txut.

To do a build, perform the normal steps of bldmake
bldfiles and abld build <target-platform>.

Note that:

UI resources and icons for the MTM are built to
\resource\messaging\.

A resource file that provides information to register the MTM
with the messaging server is built to
\resource\messaging\mtm\.

The bld.inf's file PRJ_EXPORTS
section lists header files copied into \epoc32\include.

The MTM stores its settings in its own area in the central
repository. This requires a repository initialisation file
(10005247.txt) to be supplied. The bld.inf does this
by exporting the file to the central repository private directory
z:\private\10202BE9\.

The final step, registering the MTM, is not performed by the build
process, and is described below.

Registration

On the Emulator, you should have run the messaging application at
least once before registering the TextMTM, as this creates some necessary
folders.

Before you can use the TextMTM, you must inform the Message Server
of the TextMTM registration data. To do this, run the txin
program, a simple console program.

Use

Start the messaging application in the normal way. You will find
that it has automatically detected the presence of the new MTM and added
suitable commands to the user interface. For details of the available
functionality, see the other documentation on individual TextMTM components,
but to get started, try the following:

Create a new TextMTM service. You will be asked to choose a
directory to be mapped to the TextMTM service.

Note that directories such as \private\ and
\sys\ cannot be used, as platform security requires that access to
those directories is restricted.

Create a new TextMTM message. As the TextMTM does not include a
user interface for message editing and viewing, it simulates this activity by
flashing an Editing information message.

Select a TextMTM message in a local folder. Check that a
special Export text to file command appears in the
application's menu and use it.

Cut, copy, and paste messages between local folders and the
service.

Add and remove files (e.g. through Windows Explorer when using
the Emulator) manually from the directory mapped to the TextMTM service. In
messaging, go to the service and see that a special Refresh
service menu command appears. Use this and check that the service now
accurately reflects the state of the directory.

Copyright ©2008  Symbian Software Ltd.
