SYMBIAN OS V9.3

 »
Symbian OS v9.3 »
Examples »
Messaging example code »
Messaging Text MTM example code »
Introduction

Introduction

The TextMTM (examples\Messaging\TextMTM) is an example
MTM project, which shows many aspects of dealing with the Messaging APIs.
Developers can use it as a basis for experimenting with the MTM architecture,
and for studying the MTM interfaces.

Rather than implementing a real message transport protocol, the
TextMTM simulates this by treating the local file system as a remote mail
server. The TextMTM allows a user to create a service representing a folder in
the file system. The service then contains entries for each folder and file
under that folder, so functioning as a mirror of the folder contents.

The UI MTM component allows users to get messages from the "remote"
server, to edit the contents of a text message, and to copy messages back to a
TextMTM service. Moving and deleting messages is also allowed.

TextMTM projects

The TextMTM is made up of a number of components, and so the source
has a number of projects.

The following project is a utility project, used for deploying the
MTM.

Project

Description

txin

Utility application for MTM installation

The following projects supply the source for the MTM.

Project

Description

txtc

Client-side MTM implementation. This defines the methods
required for a CBaseMtm-derived class. It is instantiated by a
client application to perform MTM-specific tasks.

txti

UI Data MTM implementation. This presents the messaging
application with useful information, without the need for actually fully
loading all the DLLs necessary to handle text messages.

txts

Server-side MTM implementation. This provides all the
functionality to handle messages on the server side, and supports moving,
copying, deleting, and creating of entries.

txtu

User Interface MTM implementation. This is loaded when the
user decides to actually perform some MTM-specific task, such as editing a
message.

txut

A small utilities DLL where code resides that has to be
shared between the MTM implementations.

Copyright ©2008  Symbian Software Ltd.
